hi Rosie friends its Julie and today
you're going to talk about something
this isn't actually to do with my face
in that I don't actually do this
practice on my face itself so it won't
affect the rosacea but I do have
sensitive skin on the rest of me
my very dry skin it gets irritated very
very easily and so I treat it very
delicately I use um very very choosy
about the products that I'll use and I
was introduced to dry skin brushing from
a cookbook actually that I bought a
really really long time ago back when I
was still living in downtown Toronto and
I was trying to sort of clean up the way
that I was eating for the first time I
was kind of cooking for myself for the
first time and I wanted to get away from
all of the instant things and stuff like
that and I bought this really this
cookbook from Gillian McKeith who is a
personality that you see on a lot of UK
shows about weight and about nutrition
and things like that
he's been the center of a lot of
controversy and things like that I'm not
here to talk about her I'm just saying
that one of her cookbooks was actually
the reason that I heard of dry skin
brushing for the first time of all
things it was just about clean eating
and things that you can do in your life
to get a better complexion to look
better to feel better and stuff and she
talked about dry skin brushing nose the
first time that I ever heard of it I
purchased a brush for it for the first
time at that time and I practice it for
a very short time and then I stopped
doing it which was pretty much how I did
things at that time I would get into it
I get all hyped I'd buy all the stuff
and then I do it for a short time and
then put everything into storage
but um more recently I found myself
looking back into it again not through
that cookbook but through a whole pile
of other things and research online and
things so I got myself a new brush and
it has bristles that look like this mine
are very very soft I know that for dry
skin brushing there are some people who
want very stiff bristled brushes I don't
like those they hurt me some people say
that you have to build up to a stiffer
brush I just like the super super soft
one it's almost
like it's just been super easily it's
almost like you're just brushing pretty
softly it's certainly not as soft as a
makeup brush or anything it does have
some stiffness to it and some hold but
um it's nothing like you know a back
brush that you'd see for cleaning your
back in the shower
yeah and the entire idea there are a lot
of different beliefs about dry skin
brushing that it promotes better
circulation that it gets rid of the dry
skin that is just sitting on the outer
layer of your skin there are a lot of
different thoughts about how you should
be doing it I don't know which one's
right I'm not an expert in it and this
is only my second time getting into it
and I've only been doing it for a few
months now but I thought that I would
just share it because it is something
that I think is pretty interesting
regardless of whether or not you have
sensitive skin so basically you take a
brush like this I would recommend
starting off with a softer one just
because if you dive right in there with
a hard one you probably won't like it
maybe you can build up to that but start
with softer one in my humble opinion and
then I start down at my feet and
basically just brush the skin always
heading toward the heart so that's the
idea is basically brush the skin and
promote circulation toward the heart I
don't know if that's baloney or if
that's something that actually works
that's just what I always see if you
when I watch videos or I see
instructions that say how to do it they
always say work basically from the floor
up and work toward your heart so
basically you're just in little sweeps
I'm just going like up my legs some
things like that and I go up my arms
always towards the heart so that
basically once you get to this point
it'd be like working toward here and
once you're there and then it would be
down from here but everywhere else
you're working up on your body and I do
my entire body right from my feet all
the way up to about here on my neck
where I would be headed down because
down towards the heart so yep so I brush
over my entire skin I do this before I
shower I normally do it standing in the
bathtub or standing basically outside
the bathtub with my foot up on the ledge
to basically be able to raesha my leg a
little bit better the reason is that in
my head
this is actually brushing off dry skin
cells so I would rather have them fall
into the bathtub and then I shower and
rinse them all away I don't know if
that's just all in my head or what
because it's not like I'm leaving a
whole layer of growth mists all around
me when I do this but and there's never
anything on the brush but in my head
that's what's going on so I do that like
basically in a place where I could wash
everything away once I'm done yeah so
what I have found regardless of whether
or not it does actually create
circulation or something like that I
don't know how it actually works I know
what the claims are so I mean that could
very well be it I'm not an expert in any
of that stuff but what I do know from
doing it from actually practicing this
for a while is that if I do this on
nearly a daily basis my skin becomes
very soft it's less likely to be
irritated for example if I do this and
then I shave my legs I'm less likely to
have irritation I have fewer ingrown
hairs I have fewer of those little bumpy
things that I sometimes get in the
summertime not heat rash but like these
little puffy things I get fewer of any
of those types of things I just find
that my skin feels healthier and softer
overall I don't know if that's the
placebo effect or if that's something
that's actually happening but it makes
enough of a difference and I like it
enough that it's definitely a practice
that I will continue it only takes a few
minutes you know I'm not standing there
scrubbing for 15 minutes or anything I
just as I said I just go over like this
and make sure that I get absolutely
everywhere and I go over my entire skin
once almost every night if I'm super
tired then I don't do it but yep I just
do that and then I shower and then I
moisturize and then I crash for the
evening so it's all a part of my winding
down routine I find that a winding down
a bedtime routine is extremely important
because I struggle to sleep so actually
getting into a rhythm and doing the
exact same routine every night helps me
to wind down and I sleep way better so I
don't mind adding an extra step like
flossing or dry skin brushing because
it's just all a part of the calming and
pampering things that just eases me to
sleep every night so yeah I just thought
that I would bring that up because this
has actually done quite a difference in
my opinion
my skin I do not do it on my face as I
said at all but I do do it from about
here down and I do think that it's
absolutely lovely know that there are
some warnings and videos that talk about
this that say if you have heart some
certain heart problems and things like
that you should talk to your doctor
before doing it you can probably talk to
your doctor before doing it anyway
because you're scraping a brush against
your skin so I don't and I'm certainly
not an expert in any sense so I could be
doing it and it's fine for me but it
doesn't necessarily mean that it's fine
for you but it is worth investigating I
think because I'm really loving your
results just in terms of the way that my
skin looks and the way that it feels
both so that's enough for me to
certainly want to keep doing it but so I
thought that I would just share that
with you because I found that was really
interesting and I'm really glad that I
started doing it again if you actually
have already tried this or if you do it
regularly I hope you will share that
with me in the comments I would love to
hear if there are lots of other people
doing this if this is only a pretty
limited thing if you've even never heard
of it and do you actually what how do
you feel that it works is it just from
basically exfoliating your skin it
doesn't actually do you think that it
helps promote circulation do you think
the direction of the brushing actually
makes any difference at all I'm just
curious as to what you think about that
I hope you did like this video I hope it
was informative or at least fun for you
if you did like this video please give
it a thumbs up and if you want to see
more videos like this or about the stuff
that I do to keep my rosacea under
control
I hope you will subscribe to my channel
if you haven't already I make new videos
every Sunday and most those days that's
net I will see you next time
[Music]